Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

Can LinguaPlone be used to translate content?
   Yes, that's exactly the reason why it was developed.

Can LinguaPlone be used to translate the Plone interface too?
   Not really, the translation of Plone interface is handled by a different
   product, PloneTranslations.

Does LinguaPlone supports folder translations?
   Yes, both folderish and non-folderish content types can be translated.

How LinguaPlone keep track of translations?
   It uses Archetypes references to link the items. Every translation
   has a reference pointing to the 'canonical' item.

What's a 'canonical' item?
   It's the original content from where all translations are created. All
   translations have a reference pointing to it.

Can I have items that are language independent?
   Yes, every item without a language explicitly set will be considered
   language independent (neutral), and show up in all searches and navigation.

Can I have fields that are language independent?
   Yes. Look at the example types for the 'languageIndependent' schema
   definitions. Ideal for stuff like dates and names, where all translations
   should have the same text. The values that are language independent can only
   be edited in the canonical item, not in the translations.

What's the language of newly created content?
   All content are initially created in the language you are currently in.
   If you want it to be language independent (neutral), you have to explicitly
   set this in the translation settings menu.

What happens when I translate content?
   You're presented with a screen where you can select both the language for
   the original content and the language for the translation. This screen
   also shows you the content from the canonical item so you can see the
   original text for each field.

What happens when I translate a folder?
   A new folder is created with the selected language. Also, every content
   with the same language currently in the original folder will be moved
   to the new folder, automatically.

What happens when I translate the default view of a folder?
   The default view is the content selected to be displayed when
   directly accessing a folder. In this case, when translating it, LinguaPlone
   first creates a translation for the folder, then the content.

Why do catalog searches now only return content in the current language?
   For all language-aware items (essentially, every item with the Language
   variable set), LinguaPlone filters out the content not relevant to the
   current language. This is done to have a consistent, one-language-at-a-time
   site. Mixing languages in a site is a very bad idea, and is very
   unpredictable.

So I can't search in any of the other languages?
   Of course you can, but you have to explicitly ask for it by specifying
   'Language=all' when doing a search.

When I search for an item in the ZMI Find tab, the filter applies there too?
   Yes. We patched the ZMI form, so you have a pulldown with the languages
   available as well an 'All Languages' option.

Can I change the language of content after initial creation?
   Yes, but you can only change the language to one of the untranslated
   ones. You can't have two translations with the same language for the
   same content. When changing the content language, if the parent folder
   is already translated, LinguaPlone moves the content to the folder with
   the same language.

How can I change the content language?
   Both the 'Categorization' tab and the 'Manage Translations' menu item allows
   you to change the language of an item. The difference is that the latter also
   performs some restrictions to only display sane values, while the former
   display all languages. We recommend using the 'Manage Translations' entry in
   the Translate pulldown.

Can I make an already translated content be language independent again?
   Yes. You just need to change the language to 'neutral'. This only works on
   'Categorization' tab of an item.

What is the 'neutral' language?
   It's exactly what it means: neutral. In other words, it's a way to represent
   the content in all languages. The content becomes language independent and
   can be displayed for any language when both navigating and searching.

Why the flags are grayed out for some content?
   It happens when the content isn't available in that particular language.
   When all flags are grayed out, it means that the content is language
   neutral.

What happens when I click in a grayed out flag?
   You're presented with a placeholder page, saying that the content isn't
   available in that language, followed by the list of all the current
   translations. Additionally, you're allowed to add a translation, if you
   have the required permissions.

How LinguaPlone decides what language to use when someone access my site?
   When you access a LinguaPlone site for the first time, LinguaPlone uses the
   header 'HTTP_ACCEPT_LANGUAGE' sent by the browser to decide the language
   that should be used, then set a cookie with it. From this point, you only
   will get content on that language, except if you click in a flag. In this
   case, the cookie value is updated to the new language. After the cookie
   is set, even if you directly access a content in a different language,
   LinguaPlone will lookup the content in your current language (from cookie)
   and present it instead of the requested content. If the content doesn't have
   a translation in your language, the placeholder page with the available
   languages is displayed.

How can I link an already existing content as a translation for another one?
   The 'Manage Translations' menu item has a form that allows you to select
   any content from the same type from the current one as a new translation,
   in any of the untranslated languages.
